My mom picked me up fresh off the red-eye and we went for donuts. It was the day before Christmas Eve. I told her all the fun parts about living in Portland and she listened and hummed and marched her way through a Tim Hortons dozen. When I asked her about life at the hospital, she said well, thanks for asking. It’s just fine. I was silent for a bit so she would know I wanted to hear more, and then she told me a story about how another nurse had misheard a 99 code and went pinballing through the hospital halls to find a patient not at death’s door, as she had thought, but sitting with her newborn grandchild. That’s funny, I said. Yeah, she said, running a hand through her wispy hair. She didn’t say anything about gender the whole day, which was nice of her. It was my first time home in Winnipeg since I asked everyone to call me Sophie, about six months ago, after I moved away last January. I wanted my visit to be a Christmas the same as any other. Mom’s been trying to call me Sophie, but it’s hard for her. She left to work a shift around two and I called Megan. Dude, where the fuck have you been! she said. Putting in mom time, I said. Gayyyyy! she said. Megan says that a lot, though she’s slept with more women than I have. Dude, she said. I moved to Corydon, I live by the Blue Cactus now. It’s great. I never have to worry about driving drunk. Meet me at my place though. I gotta return some bottles. If you wanna help me? Megan always asks me to run errands or do housework and stuff with her, which I like. I like that hanging out doesn’t have to mean coffee or dinner or drinks or some bullshit. We met in Grade 9 math and bonded over stuff like Philip Roth and Papa Roach, and we hung out for the first time when she asked me if I wanted to come over and help make dinner for her great aunt. That was ten years ago. When I got to her building she was already outside, carrying bags of bottles to her car. I rush-hugged her and she dropped the bags and we teetered back and forth on the sidewalk with our boots creaking on the snow like rocking chairs. You look so good, she said. You look so good. Thank you, I said. You do too, you really do. Merry Motherfucking Christmas. She pulled me tighter and released. Megan looked the same, actually, though I’ve always thought she looked amazing. Thicket of blueberry-blue hair. Water-green eyes the shape of grapes. Still refused to wear a coat appropriate for living in the middle of Canada, layering on padded hoodies instead. We went upstairs to bag the rest of her bottles and take a shot of rum before heading out. It’s my roommate’s, she said, I need to get another bottle for him when we’re out. Remind me. Right before we left she said okay, sorry, I have to ask. Do they look like man-boobs or are they real girl-looking boobs? I didn’t want to answer. I’m only a year on hormones,  but even though I’m a B-cup, I’m also six feet and they still seem small. They do look like girl boobs if you see them under clothing though, so I said, do you wanna—? and she said yes before I could finish. I felt like a dopey teenager flashing her, but I feel like a dopey teenager a lot lately. She nodded in this approving way. They’re girl boobs, she said. Nice. Shit. I want to take pills to grow my boobs. I said sell you mine. Five bucks each. She slapped me around the middle and said, you’re such a fucking pusher! She laughed at herself. Then there was a key in the door and I had to straighten my bra. A short guy walked in with snow stuck to one side of his curly hair and his U of M parka. Hey Mark, Megan said. This is Sophie. We drank the last of your rum. I’m getting another bottle now though. Oh cool, he said, in a high, lilting voice. Hi, I’m Mark, he said. Sophie, I said. I stuck out my hand and he shook it awkwardly. I made a note to pay attention to whether men and women shook hands with each other. All these new social cues are confusing. You fall down? Megan asked, nodding to the snow on his side. Yeah, he said. These three big guys came up to me and told me to give them my parka, so I started running. I tripped after about two blocks. I don’t think they tried to chase me though. Yay Winnipeg, I said. Yeah, whatever, Megan said. Let’s go. You got a girlfriend in the States yet? Megan asked in the car. No. You got a boy? No. Boys don’t like me. I said that couldn’t be true, that she was beautiful, and she said well thank you, in that way you might tell a guy on the street that you’ve got no change  on you, sorry, so sorry. Megan and I never dated, but we did have sex once, my first year of university, when we were really high. We just pretended it hadn’t happened in the morning. She said, good luck on your midterm, and I said, have fun at work, and she kissed me on the neck and left. Then I tried to fall back asleep in her bed but I couldn’t, so I got dressed, took one of her shirts, and left. I wish I hadn’t lost the shirt, this stretchy bright green thing. I wonder how it’d look on me now that I have boobs. Your heat not work? I asked Megan. It was thirty below outside, and it didn’t feel much different inside her car. ‘s a piece of shit. Takes a while. Blech. Eh. HOLY FUCK! she screamed and braked. SHIT! We were in an intersection, and a red sedan on the cross street had braked too late for driving on snow and ice and was skidding sideways into our path. OH SHIT, I yelled, and then the sedan’s back door collided with the front right corner of Megan’s car. We slammed forward in our seats and stopped and there was a terrible mass clank of bottles in the trunk. You okay? Megan said immediately. Yeah, I said. Good. She got out of the car. YOU FUCKIN’ BRAIN DAMAGED OR SOMETHING?! she yelled. The driver was an old man with a red toque sliding off his head, staring slack-jawed at Megan. She strode over to the car and he got out and straightened his toque and said he was very sorry, oh shoot, he was very, very sorry, and Megan said yeah, you better be. Then all business-like she said come on, let’s get out of the road and do the insurance. Can your car go? He said he thought it could, and we skittered over to a  side street. He sounded like a nice guy. We actually buddied up to him by the end. There wasn’t much damage anyway since we’d both been going twenty clicks on impact. Just some dents. The guy shook our hands and said he was so sorry he caused such a nice guy and gal a hard day. Megan grunted and didn’t say anything and then he left. It’s petty, but I wish she had. Just said something like actually, we’re both nice gals. Nothing nasty. Instead she looked at me and rolled her eyes. Then we checked the bottles. Only one had broke. I don’t know why I can’t just say for myself: Actually, I’m not a guy. I get this awful image of being like a little kid saying look, no, I’m reaaaally a girl. I promise. I super promise! I wanted someone else to step up and say you’re wrong buddy-o, that there is a chick, she’s no man and you should get your eyes checked. Winter coats make it hard to see my new body shape, too, I guess. I used to love that about winter. By the way, said Megan, picking up on my mood, I know this is kind of random, but I really like how your freckles have come out now. Thanks, I said, blushing. That was nice to hear.