Growing up, I had a speech impediment. I wish I could tell you that’s why I became a writer. I’d admit (after taking a sip of coffee and checking myreflection in the window) I still get tongue-tied in situations like this; it’s astonishing I’m even finishing my sentences. You’d confess you’re the same way: either excessively chatty or struck mute, with no middle ground. You’d say something else- something calculated, no doubt intelligent, and perhap seven pretty- but I’d be speechless. I ejaculated my words prematurely and can no longer perform. You’d abandon me, disgusted and laughing. You always do. Adults always told me to read as much as possible. I imagine this was because they never did. When you’re addicted to bookish perfection, you forsake face-to-face conversations, and devalue that which doesn’t follow a plot structure. In other words, you hate life. That’s the true reason I write. I fancy myself something of a tragic hero. By the end, I hope to beat out Hamlet, Heathcliff, and Holden Caulfield for that special place in your heart. I was always embarrassed to talk at school. The other kids didn’t need more ammunition. I already stood out, due to my crazy curls and oversized glasses. But I endured in silence, knowing my dad would read to me in bed. His deep voice brought the words to life, and those words protected me from harm. With eyes closed, the little brat in footsie pajamas no longer existed. I became the story. I had two usual requests. The tale I loved was Peter Pan; the tale I loved to hate was The Three Little Pigs and the Big Bad Wolf. My father thought it very clever to mock me. He would read, “Then I’ll huff and puff and blow your house down! said the Big Bad Wup.” I’d always fall into the same trap and reply “Not, Wup, Wup!” I was unable to maneuver my three year old tongue to form the “f” sound but still knew it was wrong. My father would laugh, but to me it was no joke. I imagined huffing, puffing and blowing ourown three-bedroom colonial to smithereens. But it was pleasurable humiliation; the habit-forming kind. I reenacted the scene every night, dooming myself to the sticky role of the masochistic toddler. And so today, if someone should ask why I am what I am, I will point my finger at well-meaning elementary school teachers and the authors of 1980’s parenting books. “READ TO YOUR CHILDREN. IF YOU DON’T THEY WILL BE NOBODIES.” Oh, what dark times these suburbs have known… Books would only fuel my piousness and gross over-identification with fictional characters. When most kids were settling into their gender roles, I was too consumed in my fairytale crusade. I eventually outlawed that wretched tale of anthropomorphized swine, not because of my inability to pronounce l’s or f’s, but due to the final page. It described, in a reversal of nature, the pigs cooking the wolf alive, complete with an illustration of a barbeque. I questioned whether this supposedly big and bad wolf ever meant any harm. Maybe he only wanted to meet his neighbors. And were you not supposed to love your neighbors, unconditionally? I was something of a young animal buff, and I knew healthy wolves never harmed people without provocation (they did harm pigs, but I overlooked this). Canis Lupus was ashy species: gentle outcasts, defamed in children’s literature. It was human beings who hunted them to extinction in my home of New York State. Wolves were the real victim, and for this reason I brought the book to my mother,ordering she put an end to the injustice by stapling the last pages together. I then scampered off to draw pictures of wolves and pigs holding hands under rainbows.